---
layout: page
title: Project Portfolio Page
---

## Project: FaculType

FaculType is a desktop app for managing faculty members and their modules, optimized for use via a Command Line Interface (CLI) while still having the benefits of a Graphical User Interface (GUI) created with JavaFX. It is written in Java, and has about 11 kLoC.

Given below are my contributions to the project.

* **New Feature**: Added the ability for user to add office and department to the attribute of the contacts.
  * What it does: allows the user to include office and department as the attribute of their contacts.
  * Justification: This feature improves the product because users can now find their contacts' office.
  * Highlights: This feature requires and understanding of the person model.
  * Credits: *{mention here if you reused any code/ideas from elsewhere or if a third-party library is heavily used in the feature so that a reader can make a more accurate judgement of how much effort went into the feature}*

* **New Feature**: Added the ability for user to clear all contacts from the contact list.
  * What it does: allows the user to clear all contacts from the contact list.
  * Justification: This feature ease the users if they want to delete all contacts instead of deleting them one by one.
  * Highlights: This feature requires and understanding of the contact list model.
  * Credits: *{mention here if you reused any code/ideas from elsewhere or if a third-party library is heavily used in the feature so that a reader can make a more accurate judgement of how much effort went into the feature}*
  
* **New Feature**: Added the ability for user to clear all modules from the module list.
  * What it does: allows the user to clear all modules from the module list.
  * Justification: This feature ease the users if they want to delete all modules instead of deleting them one by one.
  * Highlights: This feature requires and understanding of the module list model.
  * Credits: *{mention here if you reused any code/ideas from elsewhere or if a third-party library is heavily used in the feature so that a reader can make a more accurate judgement of how much effort went into the feature}*

* **Code contributed**: [RepoSense link](https://nus-cs2103-ay2021s1.github.io/tp-dashboard/#breakdown=true&search=t14&sort=groupTitle&sortWithin=title&since=2020-08-14&timeframe=commit&mergegroup=&groupSelect=groupByRepos&checkedFileTypes=docs~functional-code~test-code~other&tabOpen=true&tabType=zoom&zA=drake25122000&zR=AY2021S1-CS2103-T14-1%2Ftp%5Bmaster%5D&zACS=238.61702127659575&zS=2020-08-14&zFS=t14&zU=2020-11-03&zMG=false&zFTF=commit&zFGS=groupByRepos&zFR=false)

* **Project management**:
  * Managed releases `v1.3` - `v1.5rc` (3 releases) on GitHub

* **Enhancements to existing features**:
  * Updated the GUI color scheme (Pull requests [\#33](), [\#34]())
  * Wrote additional tests for existing features to increase coverage from 88% to 92% (Pull requests [\#36](), [\#38]())

* **Documentation**:
  * User Guide:
    * Added documentation for the features `delete` and `find` [\#72]()
    * Did cosmetic tweaks to existing documentation of features `clear`, `exit`: [\#74]()
  * Developer Guide:
    * Added implementation details of the `delete` feature.

* **Community**:
  * PRs reviewed (with non-trivial review comments): [\#12](), [\#32](), [\#19](), [\#42]()
  * Contributed to forum discussions (examples: [1](), [2](), [3](), [4]())
  * Reported bugs and suggestions for other teams in the class (examples: [1](), [2](), [3]())
  * Some parts of the history feature I added was adopted by several other class mates ([1](), [2]())

* **Tools**:
  * Integrated a third party library (Natty) to the project ([\#42]())
  * Integrated a new Github plugin (CircleCI) to the team repo

* _{you can add/remove categories in the list above}_
