---
:layout: page
title: Francis' Project Portfolio Page
---

<link rel="stylesheet" href="PPP.css">

# Francis Hodianto - Project Portfolio for QuickCache (tp)

--

## Table of Contents

1. [Introduction](#introduction)
	1. [About the team](#about-the-team)
	2. [About the project](#about-the-project)
2. [Summary of contributions](#summary-of-contributions)
	1. [Enhancements and new features added](#enhancements-and-new-features-added)
		1. [Open a flashcard](#open-a-flashcard) 
		2. [Statistics of a flashcard](#statistics-of-a-flashcard)
		3. [Clear the statistics of a flashcard](#clear-the-statistics-of-a-flashcard)
		4. [Find a flashcard](#find-a-flashcard)
		5. [Navigate to previous commands](#navigate-to-previous-commands)
	2. [Code contributed](#code-contributed)
	3. [Other contributions](#other-contributions)
		1. [Project management](#project-management) 
		2. [Enhancements to existing features](#enhancements-to-existing-features)
		3. [documentation](#documentation)
			1. [User Guide](#user-guide)
			2. [Developer Guide](#developer-guide)
		4. [Community](#community)


--

<a name="introduction"></a>
### 1. Introduction

This document serves as a project portfolio for QuickCache, and outlines my contributions to the project, including the features that I have implemented.

---

<a name="about-the-team"></a>
#### 1.1 About the team

My team of five consists of  five Year 2 Computer Science students, all taking the module CS2103T Software Engineering.

---

<a name="about-the-project"></a>
### 1.2 About the project

This project was developed as part of the module CS2103T Software Engineering. We were tasked to develop a desktop application (Windows/macOS/Linux) with a Command Line Interface (that is, the program operates via text input from the user, called commands). Additionally, we were required to use an existing application, called AddressBook Level 3, as the starting point for building our application.

My team decided to a create an application that helps students manage their flashcards, test themselves, and view their performance over time. To do so, we incorporated the existing people management features of AddressBook and used it as a starting point to build QuickCache.

In total, QuickCache took a total of 10 weeks to complete.

--

<a name="summary-of-contributions"></a>
### 2. Summary of contributions

My main role in the team was to manage testing and my responsibilities included implementing features such as the ability to open the flashcard, enabling the user to view and clear the statistics of the flashcard and allowing the user to find flashcards using both or either their tags and questions. I also voluntarily added a history command that allows the user to navigate to previous commands using up/down keys.

In the following sections, I will elaborate on the above-mentioned enhancements, along with the corresponding documentation that I have written about them within the user and developer guides.

---

<a name="enhancements-and-new-features-added"></a>
#### 2.1 Enhancements and new features added

The following describes the feature and enhancement I have already done in the project.

<a name="open-a-flashcard"></a>
#### 2.1.1 Added the ability to open a flashcard

* What it does: This command allows the user to open a flashcard based on its index in the list. Opening a flashcard displays the question of the flashcard and its choices provided that the flashcard's question is a multiple-choice question.
* Justification: This feature is integral for the product to be effective because a user can forget the choices to answering the question associated with the flashcard if the question is multiple choice and the app should provide a convenient way for the user to refer to them.
* Highlights: This enhancement affects the existing GUI and functionalities to be added in the future. It required careful consideration of how it is to be implemented. The implementation too was challenging as it required changes to the existing GUI and needs to ensure backward compatibility with it.

<a name="statistics-of-a-flashcard"></a>
#### 2.1.2 Added the ability to display the statistics of a flashcard
* What it does: This command allows the user to request to display a flashcard's statistics based on its index in the list. The statistics are displayed to the user in the form of a pie chart.
* Justification: This feature is necessary for the app to achieve it's purpose of helping users improve in their academics because a user needs to know where he/she stands to decide on the amount of effort they need to put in ahead and the app should provide a simple way for the user to evaluate his/her performance.
* Highlights: This enhancement affects the existing GUI and functionalities to be added in the future. It required careful consideration of how it is to be implemented. The implementation too was challenging as it required changes to the existing GUI and needs to ensure backward compatibility with it.
* Credits: *{I referred to this [video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bpHmrgvpEDQ) on how to make a pie chart using JavaFX, this [link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/43433639/set-javafx-piechart-label-color-via-css) on getting the CSS of the pie chart and this [link](https://gist.github.com/jewelsea/1422628) on how to make the pie chart's legend look nicer}*

<a name="clear-the-statistics-of-a-flashcard"></a>
#### 2.1.3 Added the ability to clear the statistics of a flashcard
* What it does: This command allows the user to clear a flashcard's statistics based on its index in the list. The statistics are reset back to zero for all attributes that are tracked for each flashcard.
* Justification: This feature is necessary as the user might want to get rid of the previous statistics associated with a flashcard as it may no longer be a relevant gauge of his current performance and therefore the app needs to provide a way for the user to achieve that.
* Highlights: This enhancement is relatively simple as it just needs to replace the current statistics associated with the flashcard with a default one set to all zeros. The implementation did not take too much time and effort.

<a name="find-a-flashcard"></a>
#### 2.1.4 Added the ability to find a flashcard by tags and/or keywords
* What it does: This command allows the user to find a flashcard by specifying keywords in its question and/or tags associated with it. The flashcards matching the specified criteria are displayed in a list to the user.
* Justification: This feature is necessary as the user might have a lot of flashcards and doesn't want to spend too much time scrolling through the list searching for the flashcard. The app therefore needs to cater for this by providing a simple and efficient way for the user to filter the flashcards in the list based on its attributes such as the keywords or tags associated with it.
* Highlights: This enhancement affects the existing implementation of the find command. It required careful consideration of how it is to be implemented. The implementation too was challenging as it required changes to the existing find command which only accepted keywords and allowing finding using both tags and keywords proved to be a non trivial task.
* Credits: *{I referred to this [link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/86780) in order to allow for a case-insensitive "contains" implementation for finding with keywords. In simple words, this allows keywords such as "HEL" to pick up a flashcard which has "Hello world" as its question.}*

<a name="navigate-to-previous-commands"></a>
#### 2.1.5  Added a history command that allows the user to navigate to previous commands using up/down keys [Bonus Feature]

--

<a name="code-contributed"></a>
### 2.2 Code contributed

You can refer to this [link](https://nus-cs2103-ay2021s1.github.io/tp-dashboard/#breakdown=true&search=fh-30&sort=groupTitle&sortWithin=title&since=2020-08-14&timeframe=commit&mergegroup=&groupSelect=groupByRepos&checkedFileTypes=docs~functional-code~test-code~other&tabOpen=true&tabType=authorship&tabAuthor=FH-30&tabRepo=AY2021S1-CS2103T-T13-2%2Ftp%5Bmaster%5D&authorshipIsMergeGroup=false&authorshipFileTypes=docs~functional-code~test-code~other) to view the code that I have contributed.

--

<a name="other-contributions"></a>
### 2.3 Other contributions

Given below are other contributions that I have made to the project.

---

<a name="project-management"></a>
#### 2.3.1 Project management

Managed releases `v1.2` - `v1.4` (4 releases) on GitHub

---

<a name="enhancements-to-existing-features"></a>
#### 2.3.2 Enhancements to existing features

* Morphed the GUI to display flashcards instead of people ([Pull request \#59](https://github.com/AY2021S1-CS2103T-T13-2/tp/pull/59))
* Refactored statistics into its own class ([Pull request \#80](https://github.com/AY2021S1-CS2103T-T13-2/tp/pull/80))
* Updated the find command to allow searching using keywords and/or tags, increased abstraction by introducing `FlashcardPredicate` ([Pull request \#110](https://github.com/AY2021S1-CS2103T-T13-2/tp/pull/110))
* Renamed all instances of Addressbook and Person into QuickCache and Flashcard in the test code, added various test code to improve code coverage ([Pull request \#86](https://github.com/AY2021S1-CS2103T-T13-2/tp/pull/86), [Pull request \#94](https://github.com/AY2021S1-CS2103T-T13-2/tp/pull/94), [Pull request \#222](https://github.com/AY2021S1-CS2103T-T13-2/tp/pull/222), [Pull request \#255](https://github.com/AY2021S1-CS2103T-T13-2/tp/pull/255))

---

<a name="documentation"></a>
#### 2.3.3 Documentation

Below are the details of the contributions I made to documenting the app

<a name="user-guide"></a>
##### 2.3.3.1 User Guide

* Added documentation for the features `open`, `stats`, `clearstats` and `find` ([Pull request \#160](https://github.com/AY2021S1-CS2103T-T13-2/tp/pull/160))
* Updated the command summary section to make it clearer. Built the table using HTML from scratch as it provided more features as compared to markdown's table. ([Pull request \#160](https://github.com/AY2021S1-CS2103T-T13-2/tp/pull/160))
* Updated all the images in the User Guide to reflect the latest implementation of the app and to ensure that they are all of the same size and appearance ([Pull request \#236](https://github.com/AY2021S1-CS2103T-T13-2/tp/pull/236))
* Updated the table of contents in the User Guide to provide multilevel numbering for added clarity ([Pull request \#236](https://github.com/AY2021S1-CS2103T-T13-2/tp/pull/236))
* Updated FAQ section of User Guide to improve user experience ([Pull request \#252](https://github.com/AY2021S1-CS2103T-T13-2/tp/pull/252))

<a name="developer-guide"></a>
##### 2.3.3.2 Developer Guide

* Added implementation details for the features `open`, `stats`, `clearstats` and `find` ([Pull request \#136](https://github.com/AY2021S1-CS2103T-T13-2/tp/pull/136))
* Added Use Cases for the features `open`, `stats`, `clearstats` and `find` ([Pull request \#243](https://github.com/AY2021S1-CS2103T-T13-2/tp/pull/243))

---

<a name="community"></a>
#### 2.3.4 Community

* PRs reviewed (with non-trivial review comments): [\#37](https://github.com/AY2021S1-CS2103T-T13-2/tp/pull/37), [\#95](https://github.com/AY2021S1-CS2103T-T13-2/tp/pull/95), [\#97](https://github.com/AY2021S1-CS2103T-T13-2/tp/pull/97), [\#140](https://github.com/AY2021S1-CS2103T-T13-2/tp/pull/140), [\#229](https://github.com/AY2021S1-CS2103T-T13-2/tp/pull/229)
* Reported bugs and suggestions for other teams in the class (examples: [1](https://github.com/FH-30/ped/issues/1), [2](https://github.com/FH-30/ped/issues/2), [3](https://github.com/FH-30/ped/issues/3), [4](https://github.com/FH-30/ped/issues/4))

--
