---
layout: page
title: Junhua's Project Portfolio Page
---

## Project: McGymmy

McGymmy is a desktop diet tracker application used for teaching Software Engineering principles. The user interacts with it using a CLI, and it has a GUI created with JavaFX. It is written in Java, and has about 10 kLoC.

Given below are my contributions to the project.

## Code contributions

* **New Feature**: Added the ability to import and export files.
  * What it does: allows the user to import and export McGymmy save files both in CLI and GUI.
  * Justification: This feature improves the product significantly because a user can transfer their data to other McGymmy programs. A GUI is provided so that users who do not remember their file structure can browse through their system to find the directory they want.
  * Highlights: This enhancement supports future updates to food items if more attributes are to be added.
  * Credits: *JavaFX Documentation*
  
* **Refactoring**: Did pair programming with [Kamil](team/chewypiano.md) to refactor the code in AB3 to McGymmy 
  * What it does: allows everyone on the team to have a clear interface where they can interact with other packages more effectively. It also changes the package name of McGymmy 
  * Justification: 
  
* **Refactoring**: Did pair programming with [Joey](team/joeychensmart.md) to refactor the IllegalArgumentException to IllegalValueException.
  * 
  
* **Code contributed**: [Commits](https://github.com/AY2021S1-CS2103T-W17-3/tp/commits/master?author=jh123x), [RepoSense](https://nus-cs2103-ay2021s1.github.io/tp-dashboard/#breakdown=true&search=&sort=groupTitle&sortWithin=title&since=2020-08-14&timeframe=commit&mergegroup=&groupSelect=groupByRepos&checkedFileTypes=docs~functional-code~test-code~other&tabOpen=true&tabType=authorship&zFR=false&tabAuthor=jh123x&tabRepo=AY2021S1-CS2103T-W17-3%2Ftp%5Bmaster%5D&authorshipIsMergeGroup=false&authorshipFileTypes=docs~functional-code~test-code~other) 

## Other Contributions

* **Project management**:
  * Managed releases `v1.3 trial` and `v1.3` (2 releases) on GitHub

* **Enhancements to existing features**:
  * Added import, export and Date filtering features into the GUI [\#80](https://github.com/AY2021S1-CS2103T-W17-3/tp/pull/80/)
  * Did pair programming with [Sean](team/dcchan98.md) to add a PieChart with summary values along with the labels for total calories.

* **Documentation**:
  * User Guide:
    * Added Screenshots for User Interface for McGymmy [\#205](https://github.com/AY2021S1-CS2103T-W17-3/tp/pull/205) [\#151](https://github.com/AY2021S1-CS2103T-W17-3/tp/pull/151) [\#78](https://github.com/AY2021S1-CS2103T-W17-3/tp/pull/78)
  * Developer Guide:
    * Added implementation details of the `delete` feature.
    
* **Team**:
  * Responsible for all non-official documentation such as weekly meeting agenda and recording the results of the meeting
  * 

* **Community**:
  * PRs reviewed (with non-trivial review comments): [PRs](https://github.com/AY2021S1-CS2103T-W17-3/tp/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Aclosed+reviewed-by%3A%40me+)
  * Contributed to forum discussions (examples: [1](), [2](), [3](), [4]())

* **Tools**:
  * Integrated a third party library (Jfoenix) to the project ([\#80](https://github.com/AY2021S1-CS2103T-W17-3/tp/pull/80/))
